# 1.2 What do you look for in a strong AI/engineering culture?

---

For AI culture specific, i think culture like willingness to take risks is important (manageable/calculated risks based on capabilities). The AI space is ever evolving and immature now, so I think it's important to challenge some of the “fundamental” knowledge that is currently in the market.

Even a long standing algorithm that has been believed for roughly 40years like the Shortest-path Algorithm is improved(China’s Tsinghua University helps to break 40-year-old maths cap on computer speed | South China Morning Post), I believe the AI field definitely has a lot more algorithm that can be enhanced.

I think setting a bound within the range of exploration is extremely bad in the current AI field. Some of the research topics like Context Rotting and also questioning about the thinking model of the AI sounds like common sense to me now, but it never occurred to my mind to question more about it before the research has been released, because I decided to be set within the boundaries of the pioneers in the field.

For engineering, key culture such as transparency, communication, honesty, team work, leadership, passion, drive to learn and problem solving are all important. These critierias are imperative in the shaping of a successful, high performing and healthy team. A team that is lacking in any certain aspect will eventually be facing some politics, its just whether the situation is bad.

I understand that it's definitely not possible to look for all of the characters, but there needs to be some member who has these characteristics or traits to help the team function at a higher level.
